Um, but, anyways, we, we are, uh, again,
as I mentioned earlier, getting ready
to jump into just a, what I call a mini
series, um, just over Matthew chapter 7.
Um, and if, those of you who have been
here, uh, back when we did our mental
health series, which was not too long ago,
uh, we actually covered a little bit of
Matthew chapter 6, uh, about seeking first
the kingdom of God and His righteousness.
Um, and then we also saw the last
two weeks where Dave walked through
the Lord's Prayer in Matthew 6.
And so, we've actually recently
dealt with a little bit of, um, what
we call the Sermon on the Mount.
Which is usually Matthew
chapter 5 through 7.
And so, whenever I was praying
and walking through just...
Um, The Gospels this summer,
because obviously I haven't
preached in the last three weeks.
Um, God just brought Matthew 7 to my
heart, and as I've been reading over
it, Um, typically, I would say Matthew
7 is one of those that is pastors.
It's like, this is going to be fun.
And whenever I see texts like this, I go,
you know, it's probably good for me to
preach through tough texts in the Bible.
Because most of us are probably
saying, you know, I have
some questions about that.
And so whenever I stepped off
into this, I was like, I even
have some questions about this.
Um, so I think this
will be valuable for us.
I'm hoping that it'll be beneficial
for those of you who'll be able
to be here for the next several
weeks to walk through this.
Um, but, uh, we're gonna talk
about judge not lest you be judged.
So, question, anybody ever had
somebody tell you not to judge them?
Or have you ever told
somebody not to judge you?
Anybody, let's go.
Hey, we got several
hands that got up, right?
Typically, we will hear people say that,
hey, the Bible even says don't judge.
Unless you be judged.
Uh, and so what you'll find in the church
world is one of usually two things.
You'll find, uh, people who don't
want to judge at all, because they're
fearful of this scripture that says
don't judge unless you be judged.
And then you'll have those who know
this scripture, but then they're like,
but the Bible says, you know, sin is
sin, and, and we're called to call out
sin, so we're gonna, we're gonna judge.
Righteously, we're going to go through
and grab the Bible, and what we would
call, we call those people Bible thumpers.
They literally carry their Bible around.
They, and they don't practically, like,
they don't hit you across the head.
Maybe, you know, you're, you
did, but they, they verbally
do that with the Word of God.
Trying to make you feel less than them.
So that's typically where, if any
of us have dealt with judgment,
or this, you know, judgment text.
You've kind of, some of you
are somewhere in the middle.
You've probably been part
of a good church where...
Pastors help you learn a little bit
more about judging, and so because
of that, we really want to kind
of jump off into this and see what
God's word has to say about judging.
Um, and I think this, whenever I
think about Christians or churches,
they typically get a bad rap
when it comes to judging others.
Uh, and really it comes across as this, as
most people will say, Hey, most churches
think that they're holier than me.
They think they're better than me.
But that church, that
person is a hypocrite.
Anybody ever heard that?
All people, all Christians
are just hypocrites.
You know, honestly, we
probably are at times.
They don't necessarily have that wrong.
Um, but there, there's, we get this bad
rap, and usually it's because we walk
around and, and I say we, I'm using this
as a general statement of the fact of
trying to view this from a standpoint of
where we're, we're talking with people
who have probably been hurt by the church,
or maybe don't attend the church, or
maybe you're in the church and you've
been hurt by somebody that's done this,
but typically we, rather than going
in love to someone, we go in judgment.
We go and we say, hey, you're a sinner.
You should read your Bible.
You should pray more.
You should go to church more.
And, and again, those things are all good,
but it's usually out of a judgmental tone.
Um, you'll even come up to some
people, um, that you don't even know,
and I've seen some people do this.
They walk right up to them and
say, you know, you shouldn't drink.
You know, you shouldn't smoke.
You know where that's going to send you.
That's going to send you
to hell in a handbasket.
Anybody ever heard that one?
See, that's another problem.
Again, so you all understand, I
believe most people that say those
statements are saying them because
they think that they're helping people.
And ultimately, as we're going to learn
today, is are we supposed to judge people?
Short answer, that absolutely, 100%,
there is a right way to go about it.
And Jesus is going to clearly do that.
And so, I just know this, whether it's
the major things that we talk about
in judgment, but I would say this, I'm
just going to make a blanket statement.
Everybody in this room has
judged someone at some point.
Odds are, on a Sunday morning,
if you've watched anybody walk
in this room, you probably looked
at somebody and judged somebody.
By the way they look, by the way
they act, by the way their kids
act, by what they wore, by how
they didn't look at you correctly.
You judged them.
We're all guilty of judging.
So, that's really where
the heart of this starts.
It's when we don't realize
that we are all guilty of sin
and when it comes to judgment.
And so we're going to answer
a couple questions today.
The question is, are we supposed to judge?
And the answer to that is yes, but we're
going to see what God says in his word.
But number one, if we are, then
what's the purpose behind judging?
So I hope we'll understand this together.
So we're in Matthew chapter seven.
We're going to read verses
one through six together.
Those verses should be
up on the screen today.
If they're not.
I think they are.
So, let's look at this together.
So it says this, Do not judge
so that you won't be judged.
For you will be judged by the same
standard with which you judge others.
And you will be measured by
the same measure you use.
Why do you look at the splinter in
your brother's eye, but don't notice
the beam of wood in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother, Let
me take the splinter out of your eye.
And look, there's a beam
of wood in your own eye.
Hypocrite.
First take the beam of
wood out of your own eye.
And then you will see clearly to take
the splinter out of your brother's eye.
Don't give what is holy to the dogs, or
toss your pearls before pigs, or they will
be trampled, uh, trample them under their
feet, and turn, and tear you to pieces.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, as we dive
into your word, that you help each one
of us, including myself, Lord, understand
the heart of judgment and what that means
and, and the, and Lord, what your goal
in judging is and, and what our goal in
judging is, and Lord, I pray that we all
leave out of here with some encouragement,
Lord, with some direction, and Lord,
I pray that if someone comes up to us
after today's message, I pray if someone
comes up to us, Lord, and they say, don't
judge me, We're able, we're able to come
across and share with them love and share
with them the truth that we learned from
this word so that we can help them come
to know you and Lord help us understand
our place and our role in this and so
we just pray this in your name amen.
So we're going to jump off into a little
bit of the background I want to kind
of touch on this because sometimes we
just jump off into text and we don't
understand what we're dealing with.
So the book of Matthew is wrote by one
of Jesus disciples and this is what
I I would say Matthew is one of those
disciples that took notes in class.
Uh, I'm not that guy.
I'm typically the guy that goes
and listens to the lecture.
And I tell you bits and pieces that
I remember and that's good for me.
But I'm so thankful that
Matthew was a note taker.
And so Matthew wrote out really a
lot of Jesus life and his story.
And he put them into this book, and we
know that he's one of the disciples,
one of the, uh, ones that wrote the
gospel, so Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John, that all share some of the
same, similar accounts of Jesus.
And so, when we look at this, we
look at just the first couple of
chapters of Matthew, chapters 1
through 3, and really those chapters
connect Jesus to the Old Testament.
And really it connects Jesus, uh, and how
he fulfills the Old Testament prophecy.
And so after that connection, we go into
chapters 4 through 7, and this is when
we see Jesus announcing and teaching the
arrival of the kingdom of God, right?
And God's rescue plan for Jesus to
come to the world to save sinners.
Um, right, he begins to explain how
he's come to confront evil and to
restore God's kingdom into a new family.
But then he takes his followers up onto
this mount, or this mountain, right?
And we talk about...
Um, this, this, uh, sermon on the Mount
and he takes them up there to teach
them how to live in God's kingdom.
And so, I don't know about you guys,
but if, if Jesus took his followers
to go teach them how to live in the
kingdom of God, do you think this, these
are valuable things for us to learn.
One of you agrees and the
rest of you are just here.
Praise God.
I'm hoping you'll show up
in a couple of minutes.
So God, I believe, had this Sermon on
the Mount not only for His followers
in that day, but it was for us today.
It's still practical for us today, right?
And so He begins to share several
things with His listeners to guide
them in this new way of life.
In their old way of life, they were
taught typically by the religious
leaders, which he's going to kind
of confront in these statements.
And so because they had a bad example
from their previous religious examples,
Jesus is trying to help transform
their thinking into the thinking of
the way, the new way of how to...
Follow Jesus.
Um, and when we look at this
audience, this audience was a group
of believers, but many believe as the
crowds grew every day as he began to
share, um, and there was unbelievers
and believers in this audience.
And so, um, we're gonna jump off into
now this idea of what is judgment and
are we supposed to judge, I'm gonna kind
of walk through this and kind of build
this, hopefully at the end where we'll
will see us a lesson to take home today.
But what is judgment and
what is it supposed to be?
So when you look at this, the
practical stance of judgment,
judgment, Is to pronounce an
opinion concerning right and wrong.
So judging someone is having an
opinion whether what they're doing
or not doing is right or wrong.
Right?
That's practical and simple.
But are we able to judge?
And I think verse five, we could go
a couple of different verses in the
Bible to talk about how Jesus says that
we are to judge, but I think we just
have to go to verse five to say this.
Yes, we are.
Even though he says, don't judge and we'll
talk about what that word judge means.
But in verse five, if you'll
even look at this again, he
says, hypocrite, which is Great.
We'll talk about that later.
He says, first, take the beam of
wood out of your own eye, and then
you will see clearly to take the
splinter out of someone else's eye.
So in that explanation, Jesus is saying,
you have a role in making a judgment of
someone else's life and helping them.
So we are supposed to judge,
but yet the first verse says,
judge not unless you be judged.
So whenever we look at that
word judge, what does that mean?
And I'm, I'm not great with these
things, but I, whenever I begin
to study them, the tense of the
verb judge really significant,
signifies a once and final judgment.
It's not our role and responsibility
to condemn people to hell.
It's not our role and responsibility to
tell them that, um, you fully believe
they are going to hell and that Jesus
is, is definitely going to judge you.
What we are called to do is to
share truth that reveals them.
Ultimately, God is the judge.
And I mean, here's the thing, we can
make some basis statements where we
say, Hey, based on the fruit of their
life, they're probably not saved.
They may not be following the ways
of Jesus, but ultimately we are
not called to make that judgment.
That is only the place.
So when he says this, basically another
way that Jesus is explaining to us in
judging is to say that we are supposed
to make assessments or judgments
of someone's life to edify them.
I'm going to that, right?
To encourage them, to overcome
their sin, not to condemn them.
Typically, when we think about
judgment, judgment is convicting
because we think that people are,
are really thinking less of us, but
really in judging, we're supposed
to be judging in a way of helping.
But, has anybody ever had somebody
judge them in a way that's helped you?
Anybody?
A couple of you?
Okay.
I would say most of the time,
it feels very condemning.
And this is where I say
Christians get a bad rap.
And why I think today is important
for us to understand there is a right
and there is a wrong way to judge.
And so Jesus is correcting
those who would say that they're
trying to pass final judgment.
And where did the people that Jesus
was talking to learn this from?
The Pharisees.
The Pharisees were great at
telling people, If you don't
follow every one of these laws,
You're not right with God at all.
And you're going to know, but they never
took into understanding that that level of
expectation they placed on them was going
to be placed on them in judgment as well.
They clearly thought of themselves
more righteous and they were making
judgments, but yet not internally
reflecting on their own sin.
And so as believers, we are called
to judge and make assessments.
And one of the, I think this is,
we begin to think about this,
one of the most unloving things.
that we can do is to see someone heading
towards destruction and turn a blind eye.
Think about this.
If you saw someone drowning and you had
a life, you know, saving device or you
have the ability to save them and for
you to turn, because you don't want to
judge them for whatever mistake they made
to get in the water and start drowning.
You don't want to judge them.
You're going to turn your back.
Wouldn't you think that'd
be a little bit silly?
So when we practically think
about this, and we think, I'm
not supposed to judge anybody.
No, we are.
But in a helpful way,
not in a condemning way.
I'm just telling you, a practical
example of people and Christians
judging the incorrectly way, is
seeing the person drowning and
saying, you did it to yourself.
You're gonna die, and they're
sitting there, I know, like, help me.
I think most people that are
living a life apart from God, in
some way, are asking for help.
Now, they may not completely tell you
that, but their life begins to reflect
that, because many of the things that
people are living, their lives apart
from Christ, are trying to fulfill
a need that only Christ can fill.
And it never fulfills them.
Drugs, alcohol, sex, uh, family, job.
Greed, money, you name it.
They're trying to pursue these
things and it's not fulfilling them.
They are asking for help.
And I would say, at times as
Christians, all we want to do is
point out what they're doing wrong.
Rather than to get down in the
ditch and say, you know what?
I, I've been there.
I get it.
And there's a better way.
And there's a greater way.
So we've learned here that
there's not a right way to
judge or in, in that way, right?
That's, that's not the right way.
But we need to judge
out of a heart of love.
And so the sticking point is we
must be motivated by love, right?
Love for God, and love for people.
We are called to judge sin, and
I think this is so important.
We're called to judge
sin, but not preference.
style or traditions.
And I believe this in the conversations
that I've had even more recently,
I'm gonna share some of those.
I believe most people are turned
off by the church because of our
judgment of styles and what people
look like and don't look like and
specifically how they perfectly live
out their life or what they don't.
And I just want to give
you guys a great example.
I was in a church in Oklahoma
and I remember one day seeing a
new person come to our church.
Praise God.
Love new people coming to our church.
And I had a member come over
to me and they said, Did you
see that new person coming in?
And I said, Yeah, praise God.
He said, Did you see he was
wearing a hat into the sanctuary?
And I went, What?
What did you just say?
He says, Did you see he wore
a hat into the sanctuary?
That's not allowed.
That's not okay.
This is God's house.
And I kind of was laughing
thinking he was joking.
And he wasn't.
He was more worried about
that guy's hat on his head.
That he was worried about that guy's soul.
Do you, I mean, you guys probably
know this because I know many of
you, it's hard to come into a church.
For the majority of the world to walk
in the doors of a church, it is hard.
Because they're fearful of being judged.
And I'll just tell you, that
day was proof of why people are
fearful to come to the church.
Because we're more worried about what
people look like, or don't look like.
Or perfectly act like, or
don't perfectly act like.
When we forgot to look in the mirror
ourselves and see our broken condition, so
that when we show up on Sunday mornings,
we're so thankful for the grace of God
and how we can extend it to others.
Who've never experienced it.
It's amazing that that has happened.
And I think this too many
times as a church, we're
known more for as Christians.
We're known more for what we're
against than what we're for.
We're known more for that.
We care just about.
You've given your life to Jesus
only, and about you repenting of
your sins, and not just about you.
And that sounds so bad.
So hear what I'm saying.
I want every person to experience
a relationship with Jesus.
But I think too many times
we come forward with this.
You're a sinner going to hell.
Are you going to repent?
And I'm like, hey, why don't you
just ask, hey, what's your name?
How are you doing?
How's your day going?
Life's been pretty tough lately.
Can I sit with you and
talk a little bit longer?
Now, I want them to know Jesus.
I want them to know that one day, if they
do not repent of their sins, that they
will spend an eternity separated from God.
I want to share that.
But I think too many times, as Christians
and as churches, we start with judging.
And then later on, it's like, oh
yeah, what was your name again?
And that's the wrong way, and we're
gonna see how Jesus explains this, right?
So where do we start?
Where do we start?
We start with knowing not how to judge.
We talked a little bit about this, but
I want to walk through these couple
of verses really quick to kind of
emphasize a couple of these things.
He says, do not judge so that you won't
be judged, for you'll be judged with
the same standard or measure as you
measure, as you judge others with, right?
So they had followed the Pharisees
in these examples, right?
They'd seen the Pharisees do
this, and so Jesus is trying to
change their mentality with this.
Uh, the Pharisees were trying
to play God in essence.
And so when we think about our world,
and we think about judging, Um, some of
the things that we will make statements.
And so, some of you may say, well
that doesn't happen in the church.
Let me just give you a
couple that I've heard.
If they believe in that and
follow that political party,
there's no way they can be saved.
Anybody ever heard that one before?
And I'm not even defining either one.
You ever heard that one?
Have you ever heard somebody say this?
Did you know that so and so went to a
Reds game last week and missed church?
And that's the third week in a row.
Could they be a believer if
they don't come to church?
You ever heard that one?
I mean, that happens occasionally, right?
So if you went to the Reds
games last week, guaranteed,
you're not a believer, okay?
Just wanna let you guys know that.
Just joking, okay?
We can laugh in here, right?
Gosh, you guys are a tough crowd today.
So, when we think about this, right,
when us Christians, right, judge
someone in such a way that we make
ourselves look better, that's where
Jesus is talking about this judgment.
We will be judged by that same measure.
Let me just explain this.
Sin is sin.
We're all no better than someone else,
so let me just give you a great example.
If I am judging or making a judgment
of someone, and I'm just going to
do this right now to help you here,
I'm going to judge Jason right now.
Jason's been having his eyes closed.
I'm just joking, I don't have any clue.
You know, I just think he's
just, he doesn't even care to be
here, and he's just here because
Christina made him be here.
Now I didn't say that out loud,
but I thought that in my head.
And you know what I'm
going to say as well?
I'm here, I'm wide awake.
You know, I showed up.
I showed up caring about this message.
Y'all know that you think of some
of those things, you look around.
So what I'm saying is, I was
in here thinking about how poor
Jason was, and how great I am.
Most of our judgments, when we make
judgments, is this, when we begin
to judge in that way, aren't we
sinners when we judge in that way?
Here's the thing, and this is
something I think is so critical.
When we do make judgments like
that, we may be right in the
way in which someone's living.
Not Jason, so I'm not
talking about that right.
But we may be right in the judgment
in which we made about that person.
They may be living in sin.
But the moment that we judge in such a way
that makes us righteous and them not, us
better than them not, we will be judged
with the same standard, which means this,
we have just sinned for the sin of pride.
See, when Jesus saw crowds, He didn't go,
those worthless sinners, how dare they?
He had compassion.
He had concern.
He says they were distressed and rejected.
I, just translate this.
It could be people that were on
the streets selling their bodies.
It could be people who were
basically worthless and homeless.
It could be people that were
homeless because of their own faults.
It could be brokenness in homes
and kids that weren't acting right.
And this is how he would translate
it, distress and dejected people.
And he didn't judge them.
Technically, he didn't make judgments.
He was compassionate once
he realized their condition.
He was compassionate.
What does it mean to be compassionate?
I've shared this in multiple
different ways, but I want to share
it the best way that I possibly can.
When I think of compassion, it's a deep
down desire that you have to do something.
And y'all know this, in about a couple
hours, you're going to deep down inside
want to eat because you're hungry.
But what I imagine compassion
is not eating for two days.
Days, three days, four days.
And so desiring to eat, to nourish
yourself, that's compassion.
When you see people that aren't living
the way that God's called them to, they're
living a second rate life, a life that
is not beneficial for them, rather than
judging them, we so desire to help them.
That's what Jesus has called us
to do when we think about judging.
So we have compassion, right?
Not necessarily judgment.
I wanna give you guys a couple of
examples here, and this is how.
So we have a mission team in this week.
If you don't know this, there's a
mission team in the back row here.
Um, that came in from Tulsa, Oklahoma to
come and help serve our city this week.
I just want to give you a couple
things that we got to do this week.
Number one, um, we got to write some
encouraging cards to teachers, which is
so awesome because I love to do that.
Number two, we got the opportunity to
serve along, serve the city this week.
The homeless community, food
pantry, um, which is amazing.
Um, we got to do some more stuff.
Clean the gym that I work for and be
able to love on them and support them.
Um, we've got to go canvassing,
uh, door to door and invite people
to an event in a couple of weeks.
We've got to do several different things.
And I'm so thankful for you guys.
Thank you so much for coming
and serving alongside us.
It means so much.
Um, but we were doing this yesterday.
It was Friday.
Um, we were canvassing and
walking around the neighborhood.
Uh, and it's this moment.
I'll just tell you guys this.
And I'm going to say this.
Don't judge me.
Um, but walking around, and you're
walking around a little bit rougher
neighborhood in our community.
And the first thoughts that
want to go through my head is...
Man, these are some rough houses.
How did they get here?
Right?
And I want to start kind
of judging a little bit.
And then quickly, I'm walking through
this text this week, quickly I'm going,
no, I have compassion for these people.
And so I said, in my heart, in
my mind, I'm like, I'm going to
approach people differently today.
If somebody answers, then I'm
going to approach them differently.
And God gave me that opportunity,
literally, I think it was like the
first house that we walked into.
I think it was the first
house that I walked into.
I mean, you walked into their house,
I think I went to a person outside.
And I started talking to this
lady, and she's basically blind,
old, and she's had a difficult...
life and rough church experience and
I begin to hear her and it's those
moments where I know I'm supposed to
be canvassing and I just sat down.
I sat down on the concrete
and just listened to her.
Just listen to her story.
Listen to all she's went through.
And there would have been many times
for me to be like, man, how dare you?
And all I did, I was just, I was
burned over what she's going through.
And I just encouraged her
and some truth of her life.
She had some deceiving, uh, thoughts
that really were not good for her.
And I just began to speak
as much life as I could.
And it was a great experience.
Got to pray with her.
Walked away from that experience just
really encouraged, and right towards
the end of our canvassing there was
three guys on a porch, um, and, and
here's the great thing is, we walk up,
we talk to them, we invite them, kind
of walk away, and he hollered out, Hey!
We came back.
And we just started talking.
And I asked the question, I said,
Hey, do any of you go to church?
No, not really, no, whatever.
And I said, Uh, why not?
Uh, I said, Is it because you
feel like the judge in you?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's hard to walk into a
church when they're not teaching
truth, they're hypocrites.
I'm like, I just heard all this!
These are three guys that won't darken
the doors of a church because they
think of churches as hypocrites,
people that judge them, okay?
Now that may be their own
fault, because maybe churches
aren't that way, all of them.
But that's them completely
explained to me in this.
And so it reminded me, and I love how
God sets this up, it reminded me that
there are many people in this world that
need us to show compassion and love.
You know what I told them?
I said, what are they judging about?
Oh, this, this, this, this, okay.
And I started thinking,
you know, I'm a sinner too.
I'm in need of some much
grace as those guys.
And I'll just take this today.
I'm so glad.
I'm so glad, if you don't know this, we
have planted a church, started a church
that welcomes sinful and broken people.
And honestly, that's everybody.
If you didn't know that coming
in, I'm sorry, but we're all
sinful and broken people.
There's not one of us
righteous in this room.
Not one.
The only one that was righteous
was Jesus, and that's who we are
constantly pointing each other to.
And this is the place to be.
We call it the judgment free zone, and
the fact of like condemning judgment,
because we'll let God do that.
We're here to bring truth and love.
For repentance, but truth and love
and, and I love this, when we think
about what Jesus came to do, he says
this in John three 16 through 17,
and most people just stop at 16.
I want to kind of share this.
So for God so loved the world in this
way, he gave, he didn't judge, he
gave right his one and only son so
that everyone who believes in him will
not perish, but have eternal life.
And I love 17.
Cause most of the time we stop at John
three 16, most people can memorize that.
We just stop.
Here's what 17 says, for God did
not send his son into the wall.
To condemn the world, but to
save the world through him.
Jesus came to save.
Jesus came with compassion to do
something about it, and he has called
each one of us to do that same thing.
But what do we know?
It's hard to not judge it.
I mean, just raise your hand.
Is it hard not to judge people when
you're walking down the street, when
you're driving in the car and then
cuts you off and you know that they
shouldn't be on the road driving?
How dare they?
And maybe a couple cuss words come
out of you, but you're not wrong.
You're righteous.
It's hard.
But this is why we have
to study God's work.
This God's word is true.
God's word reigns over our lives and
it helps us remember our condition.
Right?
So making judgments, this is where
it's kind of leading to and it's
been leading to for a long time.
Making judgment really
begins with self-reflection.
This is where we see
verses three and five.
Why do you look at the splitter in
your brother's eye, but don't notice
the beam of wood in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother,
let me take out the splinter of your
own or in your eye, and look, there's
a beam of wood in your own eye.
Practical, practically speaking.
See, I'm this guy that thinks
of things after the fact.
I wish I had a beam that I could just hang
out here in my eye, and then attempt to
try to pull something out of your own eye.
That'd be pretty funny, wouldn't it?
It'd be stupid.
You guys would be like, yeah,
you're trying to help me?
Um, they'd probably be
like, well, can I help you?
That's really how Jesus wanted this to be.
He wanted it to seem so stupid to think
about as someone in our condition that
hasn't dealt with our own, that hasn't
seen our own brokenness, hasn't seen our
need for grace to ever go on a break.
And, and to help them overcome
their sin without dealing
with their own is impractical.
It's, it is completely impractical.
And why, when we begin to judge
others, do we downplay our own sin?
Why?
I think a couple of reasons.
I kind of wrote down a couple of reasons.
Number one, we think
the best of ourselves.
I think most of us view ourselves
better than some of those around us.
We kind of have that
self righteous feeling.
Okay, number two, I believe that it's
because it's easy to judge someone.
Else's sin than her own.
It's easy to walk around and point out
everybody else's fault, but it's sometimes
harder to see him in our own life.
And if those of you that are married in
this room, you should know that it's,
it's hard to hear from your spouse
where you're falling short because you
don't see it and you like to justify it.
The last one is, I think it's this
way, is that it's easy to judge
sin in other people's lives in
which you don't struggle with.
I wanna say that again.
It's easy to judge sin in other people's
lives that you don't struggle with.
I'm just, I'm just telling you it is.
When you think.
I'll just give you a couple of reasons.
I can't believe so and so
isn't given to this church.
I double tithe.
I mean, even if you're double tithing,
praise God, keep doing that, okay?
Um, but, you could be also the
person that says this, I can't
believe he just used foul language.
I've never said a cuss
word in my life, right?
That may be one of them.
I can't believe she just
yelled at her kids in church.
I'm so calm, I've never
yelled at my kids ever.
My kids are perfect, okay?
We begin to view ourselves quickly as
better than those around us because of...
It's a lot of different reasons, but
making judgments starts with self, right?
So Jesus mentions this beam
and this splinter, right?
So when we get to think through this, when
we haven't self reflected and realized
how broken we are, and we have this
beam sized pride or this holier than I
mentality in our way, we have no ability
to help others, no ability to help others.
And when you think about the splinter, I
thought of it this way, anybody ever had
a splinter in their hand or their finger?
Okay.
Now let me ask this question.
Anybody had a splinter In your
hand, your finger that you couldn't
see and you had to get magnifying
the glass out, and you're like
trying to pick around to find this.
I want you to imagine that, and I want
you to imagine a long two by four,
and I want you to think about this.
How in the heck if you have a
long two by four in your eye and
somebody has a splinter that needs a
magnifying glass, how could you help
them without helping yourself first?
Is it?
Is it possible?
Some of you, I know you like,
I'm up for the challenge.
Let's go.
It's not Jesus is telling.
And I really even started thinking
through this a little bit more.
So when we think about the eye, when
we think about how sensitive the part
of that body is in the eye, um, we need
to think a little bit deeper with this
situation of taking care and helping
other people overcome their sins.
Number one, our eye is sensitive,
meaning anything that gets
in it needs tender care.
It needs basically somebody that is
not blinded by a log in their eye.
And I started thinking about
this, I don't think you would
even go to your eye doctor.
And that day your eye doctor had anything
in his eye, not a log, but even if he
had anything in his eyes that hindered
his seeing, there's no way he would
help you get something out of your eye.
No way.
He would say, you're crazy.
Let's wait another day until
I get that cleared out.
And if, if a doctor, an eye doctor
could practically see that, how can
those of us that follow Jesus that has
sin in our lives, try to go and make
judgments and accuse people and help
people if we don't help ourselves first.
By looking.
He's speaking inward at
ourselves and our sin.
And that's exactly what
he's speaking about here.
So there's a couple of take homes I
want to give you right now, and we're
going to continue on, um, and finish
up this, but number one, Christians,
or God honoring people that want to
honor God in how we make judgments, it
starts with love and compassion, right?
But then it is the next step, and
this is what we see in verse five.
First five.
This is what he says.
He says, hypocrite.
First, take the beam of
wood out of your own eyes.
Um, and then clearly take the
splinter out of your brother's eye.
So as we begin to self reflect, we
prepare ourselves to serve others, right?
Not to judge and condemn, but to help.
And here is what I want us to think about.
And I really want you to genuinely
answer this question because I know some
of you are going, Oh yeah, praise God.
Do you genuinely want to help
other people come to know Jesus?
Why don't you just answer
that question in your heart.
I want to ask it again.
Do you genuinely want to help other people
come I'm going to ask another question.
Do you genuinely want to help
other believers who are struggling
with sin overcome their sin
and be freed from their sin?
Do you genuinely want to help
others be freed from their sin?
That even within the church,
because we all deal with sin.
This is what he's talking
about with helping believers.
Do we genuinely want to help them?
Because if we truly do, if we
truly do, then it starts with us.
It starts with looking in the mirror
and in James 5, er, James chapter 1.
One and actually talks about that we,
there's people who look into the mirror,
the, the word of God, they leave it and
they forget the condition of themselves.
They forget the condition of their hearts.
So God is calling us to self-reflect,
self-reflect so that we can serve others.
And when we don't self-reflect before
we try to serve others and help them
overcome their sin, we can sometimes
do more damage than a speck of dirt
that's left in their eye if we try to
approach them without dealing with.
I'm going to say that again.
This is, this is hard to hear.
If we go without unrepentance and without
understanding our need for grace first,
when we go to others who are living in
sin, we can do more damage because what
happens is they begin to look at your
life, they begin to look at what you
come with and they can't believe you.
They say, well, the church is judging me.
The church has no care for me, the church
and the Christians and we represent Jesus
and then we begin to set people back and
I know God's sovereignty and so don't get
me if you want to have that conversation.
After.
Okay.
God's sovereign.
He'll save those who he wants
to save if he has to use
somebody else other than you.
But I believe God has called each
one of us to be a part of someone
else's salvation story or repentance
story and coming back to God.
And so I think it's important to know
that we have to start with ourselves.
So the last verse six, I want
to go over this pretty quickly.
This one seems like just
a random verse thrown in.
Anybody feel that way when
you read these verses?
You get the five verses in and
then you just got this random like,
don't give what is holy to the dogs.
It's awesome.
Well, I don't know much about
pigs or dogs, um, and I don't know
what pearls he's talking about.
Right?
So those are the things I started
thinking through when I looked at
this, and so I'm just going to try to
summarize this as quickly and as deeply
as I can to help understand this.
When we begin to deal with our own sin,
and then we go in the right way to those
who are dealing with sin, there are some
times that those people will reject help.
They'll reject correction.
They'll reject...
The grace and truth and love
and mercy that you extended.
And here's what will happen is those
of us that are really compassionate
will continue to come back and share
the pearls, the truth of the gospel.
We'll share as much as we
possibly can, but at some point
we have to leave them to God.
God is the one that changes
the hearts of people.
And so he's basically saying don't
continue to go back repeatedly
if they are rejecting the truth.
Because if you continue to go
back, you, and he says this,
they will tear you to pieces.
And he's really even speaking about
these religious leaders, right?
In that time, as they begin to share these
truths with religious leaders, they would
tear them up if they continued to go.
And that is a hard thing to hear.
And, and, what I would say is Jesus
isn't giving up on these people.
What Jesus is saying is that.
At times we need to let God do the work.
And so the question is, how do
we know when enough is enough?
And I think that's the
spirit of God leading me.
But I want to just tell you this,
it's a tough choice to make.
And when I began to study through this,
I began to think, you know, there was a
time where I didn't listen to this verse.
And I began to try to push, and try
to show up, and try to keep sharing.
And I began to be torn down and beat up.
And I realized that I was basically
putting myself in a position.
that was not healthy for me.
And that person was not changing.
And I had to step back and
say, Lord, you have to work.
It's no more my turn.
It's now yours.
And so this idea is this is the
time where we love the sinner.
We don't love the sin in
which they're living in.
And we continue to pray for them.
And God gives an opportunity to
show you and be a part of that.
And so that's a tough part of that verse.
There's more to it, but
that's a short answer to this.
So I wanted to kind of finish today
just with that kind of summarizing this
and thinking through this Romans 12.
Thank you.
Three, I think, summarizes this well.
This is what Paul said.
Paul said, because of the privilege
and authority God has given me.
Here's what Paul says, I give
each of you this warning.
Don't think of you, don't think
you are better than you really are.
Be honest in your evaluation of others.
Measuring yourself by the
faith that God has given you.
So there's four things that I learned
when I was studying this message.
Um, and that somebody
else had came up with.
So this isn't my idea with it, but
I love, I love how it laid out.
And it's basically four H's.
I'm going to talk to you
about how we can have a grace
centered judgment in our lives.
Number one, we need to be
hesitant when we judge others.
What does that mean?
It's the moment that you feel yourself
judging someone in such a way that makes
you righteous and them unrighteous.
We should be hesitant.
We should begin to view our sin
first, look inward, and then
repent and turn from whatever is
in our lives before we go for it.
I would say even this, giving people the
benefit of a doubt, many times we make
judgments So that's the number one thing.
Number two, we need to be humble.
How do we be humble?
Number one, again, we can't
think of ourselves as better.
We have to lay down our pride.
We have to lay down our self
righteousness as though we're better.
And again, I want to give you
just a couple of examples.
If you're wanting to go to a family that
is parenting kids, you believe in an
ungodly way that is not valuable for them.
It is easy for you to think, well, I've
got it right and they've got it wrong.
I'm going to go be the
savior mentality in this.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
You may need to walk alongside them
because you say, But you also don't
know the family circumstances.
And you also have put yourself in a
position that is probably unhealthy.
And understand that you
have some issues as well.
There's, there's more to that, so
I'm just giving you an example here.
The number one, or number
three, is to be honest.
Right, so we have to be hesitant,
to be humble, and then to be honest.
Right, to be honest means to
make a commitment to God's Word.
If, if we don't go to God's Word
when it comes to making judgments,
we start letting the flesh speak.
We think we know better.
And so we can We need to go to the
Word of God and we need to humbly
submit ourselves to God, not our
flesh, in approaching someone.
And number four is, what I love about
this, is to be holistic, meaning
that our goal is, in this judgment,
is restoration, not condemnation.
In the end, God will judge everyone.
It's restoration, not condemnation,
which means that we desire for people
to turn back to God, to repent of their
sins, and our goal is to not shove it
in their face and to make them feel
like this horrible person in the world.
It's really...
Just to sit beside them and say,
I know what you're going through,
because I deal with sin as well.
I deal with brokenness.
I deal with struggle.
I'm not perfect, but Jesus is,
and he is the way, the truth
in life, and he can help us.
So my hope and prayer with this is that
those of you that have had somebody
say, don't judge me, because the Bible
says don't judge me, maybe you do need
to do some self-reflection and ask the
question, did you judge in an ungodly way?
And if you did and you
remember that person's name, I.
I encourage you to go back to that person
and humbly submit and say, I am so sorry.
I was wrong in how I judged you.
But then be able to share with
them, my heart in this is because
I want something better for you.
I want you to experience Jesus.
I want you to overcome your sin.
You know, that, that is my hope is
that we've learned that those of you
that have been judged in the past,
maybe you've been hurt by a Christian
that has done it in a wrong way.
Number one, I'm sorry.
But number two, I think today is a way to
see that I think ultimately every person.
Um, and so my hope is that maybe in the
midst of that you can see some truths
that maybe God will reveal in him and
that you can learn to forgive them for it.